

  DONE cli and dpt setup - done, post it
  DONE vscode setup
    https://discourse.getdbt.com/t/how-we-set-up-our-computers-for-working-on-dbt-projects/243
  DONE snowsql setup
  DONE events
  DONE simple dpt
object versus dict
  DONE data generation
streamlit
events versus cpt and cronjobs

DONE different guis, vscode, and other

whats this --- t and l and i between mysql and snowflake. 

Better SQL programming, CTE

DONE mysql install and dpt

certifications

badges for courses

put mongo and mysql and other docs on github.


ansible
  mysql installlation
  mysql with replication
  mysql with cluster
  mysql with backups, monitoring
  pythn modules
  modult utils, library, filter_plugins


postgresql - diff between database and schema
   rules -- rules for data into tables or views. 
   savepoints in transactions -- does mysql have it?
   prepare/execute not is stord proecdures, saving variables, sql inbetween.
   domains -- creates new data types

database festures (mysql, postgresql, snowflake)
	 DONE xprimary keys
	 materialized views
	   sf has materialze views with dynamic tables
	 views
	 window functions --- mysql, postgresql, snowflake
	 roles -- mysql and posgresql
	 languages -- mysql and postgresql
	 sequences -- mysql and postgresql
	 information_schema - mysql, postrgresql, snowflake
	 engines -- mysql and postgresql
	     rules can simulate engines in postgresql

mongo -- multie replica set on on server
      Python scripts to display health from status, rs.status, and others
      	     make library which can be used by Dad or standalone


ssh to 6 or centos 7, disable keys, and other options
AWS reboots mysql with certificates
Ansible --- python definition, other settings
Mongo -- do recommendations from doc

mysql -- query cache threshold, low usage

acceess vcc_rpt_logs through Kevanna


Install DNS, install LDAP, then LDAP for MySQL and Mongo or other
https://www.cherryservers.com/blog/how-to-install-and-configure-a-private-bind-dns-server-on-ubuntu-22-04
But need to change linux and windows clients to use your server.
https://mittaltarun9715.medium.com/how-to-setup-openldap-server-and-client-installation-in-ubuntu-18-04-with-password-caching-d508a9e80642

RDS - failover, upgrades without downtime, using route
   https://stratusgrid.com/blog/how-to-perform-amazon-rds-upgrades-with-near-zero-downtime
   Multi AZ and mutil region   
   can't do uncrypted and encrypted in an RDS mysql clsuter
      https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/database/encrypt-an-unencrypted-amazon-aurora-mysql-cluster-with-minimal-downtime-using-aws-dms-homogeneous-data-migrations/
      https://medium.com/swlh/how-to-encrypt-aws-rds-mysql-replica-set-with-zero-downtime-and-zero-data-loss-b145cbf1ecf0

mongo --
   bulkwrite, 1st command will roll back, multiple commands won't (each command suceeded comitted), unless inside a transaction
      ways data can be reuined
      	   Incomplete replica failovers, use write concrn to avoid this
	   Sharding, orphaned rows -- use read concern to avoid this. 
   time series
   stream
   atlas
   ops manager

RDS amd Aurora
    system upgrade
    	   How does increase in size affect i/o
	   Increase IOPS
    major upgrades
    minor upgrades
    config changes
    update column changes with zero downtime
    	   DDL online, percona online schema change
    How to go from unencrypted to encrypted
    	unencryped cannot replicate to encrypted RDS and Aurora.

mysql -- setup clusterset in mysql on one server.

Snowflake 
  https://www.kaggle.com/c/titanic, titanic file, and ml
  pytorch , sklearn, data science
  Window functions, snowflake, postgresql, mysql, mongodb  in one article
DONE  extract data from mysql and load into snowflake, take care of datatypes.

  different stages examples, user, table, named
  flatten and queryng json files - -nested json queries
  sci anaconda -- use external app, in virtual env
  different stages
  defining and enforcement of contraints -- examples
   unie, primary, foriegn, not null and not null is only one enforced.
  File uploads and row size (not more than 16MB). Through snow gui, python connector, do 50 MB files and larger.
  pipe example, internal and external
IGNORE uploading data, new data might not fit in, error out on any errors, fix table, load, and repeat until no errors

  file loading
    loading csvs into snowflake and null mgmt
    flexible schema mgmt with variant
    another article: loading into snowflake with (modern) zstandard vs (old schoo) gzip

1st dpt project in postgresql
  copy data to snowflake
  execute in snowflake
  compare reports


monitoring -- with mysql, postghesql, snowflake
	new relic
	promethesus -- dashboardsm queries, tags, saves dasbirds json in git
	telegraph -- used with promethesus

grafana, telegraph, promethesus, with mysql, postgresql, snowflake (poll every 10 minutes to reduce traffic -- unless server is in the same domain AWS)


perconba tools
	 pmm, disable table stats. limit connctions. disable settings,
	 1. too many connections : ALTER USER pmm@'%' WITH MAX_USER_CONNECTIONS 10;
	 2. can it pull? https://docs.percona.com/percona-monitoring-and-management/details/personal_data_handling.html



explain these questions
  max instance size you have used.
  explain your migration stratergy on merging two databses.
  did you use AWS DMS and why explain
  what is use of Amazon redhshift .did you use in project ?explain .what is key difference between amazon redshift and other databases (mysql aurora) 
  how to update data bases column in aurora db when you have huge data 1 TB .
  what is your disaster recovery stratergy explain.
  can you explain how you created instance of aws aurora .explain step by step process .
  what are the major challenges you faced in your project .
  what is the max size of data you migrated.
  SQL concepts - how did you fix performace issue in query

DONE mysql
	mysqldump, nob-blcokingm rtgigger and stored proedure, and gzip
DONE linux
	list services

piplne ansible got rundeck, git runner, etc
       git brach and merge, with request and approval for code
       kubernetes, orchestrator