database festures (mysql, postgresql, snowflake)
	 DONE xprimary keys
	 materialized views
	   sf has materialze views with dynamic tables
	 views
	 window functions --- mysql, postgresql, snowflake
	 roles -- mysql and posgresql
	 languages -- mysql and postgresql
	 sequences -- mysql and postgresql
	 information_schema - mysql, postrgresql, snowflake
	 engines -- mysql and postgresql
	     rules can simulate engines in postgresql

mysql -- query cache threshold, low usage

RDS - failover, upgrades without downtime, using route
   https://stratusgrid.com/blog/how-to-perform-amazon-rds-upgrades-with-near-zero-downtime
   Multi AZ and mutil region   
   can't do uncrypted and encrypted in an RDS mysql clsuter
      https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/database/encrypt-an-unencrypted-amazon-aurora-mysql-cluster-with-minimal-downtime-using-aws-dms-homogeneous-data-migrations/
      https://medium.com/swlh/how-to-encrypt-aws-rds-mysql-replica-set-with-zero-downtime-and-zero-data-loss-b145cbf1ecf0

RDS amd Aurora
    system upgrade
    	   How does increase in size affect i/o
	   Increase IOPS
    major upgrades
    minor upgrades
    config changes
    update column changes with zero downtime
    	   DDL online, percona online schema change
    How to go from unencrypted to encrypted
    	unencryped cannot replicate to encrypted RDS and Aurora.

mysql -- setup clusterset in mysql on one server.

monitoring -- with mysql, postghesql, snowflake
	new relic
	promethesus -- dashboardsm queries, tags, saves dasbirds json in git
	telegraph -- used with promethesus

grafana, telegraph, promethesus, with mysql, postgresql, snowflake (poll every 10 minutes to reduce traffic -- unless server is in the same domain AWS)


perconba tools
	 pmm, disable table stats. limit connctions. disable settings,
	 1. too many connections : ALTER USER pmm@'%' WITH MAX_USER_CONNECTIONS 10;
	 2. can it pull? https://docs.percona.com/percona-monitoring-and-management/details/personal_data_handling.html



explain these questions
  max instance size you have used.
  explain your migration stratergy on merging two databses.
  did you use AWS DMS and why explain
  what is use of Amazon redhshift .did you use in project ?explain .what is key difference between amazon redshift and other databases (mysql aurora) 
  how to update data bases column in aurora db when you have huge data 1 TB .
  what is your disaster recovery stratergy explain.
  can you explain how you created instance of aws aurora .explain step by step process .
  what are the major challenges you faced in your project .
  what is the max size of data you migrated.
  SQL concepts - how did you fix performace issue in query

DONE mysql
	mysqldump, nob-blcokingm rtgigger and stored proedure, and gzip



processlist, slow logs, current status, replication group info
    mysql, mongo, other databases
    part of DAD -- start DAD

inline views


roles -- mysql, cockroachdb, postgresql, snoflake

mysql -- if log flush happens more than 1 seconds, log flush buffer is too small

inline views

mysql -- sys.statement_analysis -- analyze queries : how to turn on and what to do
  1. Look for exec_count, and avg and lock latency
  2. performance_schema, threads threads,processlist_id and other thread tables
  . performance_schema, metadata_locks, threads, join by owner_thread_id and thread_id, with processlist_id on threads.
  3. percona xtrabakcup, and streaming
DONE   4. retore root permissions, account.
  5. index merge, explain explain
  6. dad, get df mem cpu, global vriables, status, show processlist
  7. roles
DONE  8. reststore root permissions
DONE   9. Restore self permissions if you have grant option.
  10. backup doc with streaming

msqyl rep -- parrallel master to serial slave,
  large transactions with join that takea long time -- causes lag on slave-- the largest time for a trnasction causes slave delay because it takes that long on slave,
  backups blocks DDL queries and hence slave in blocked,


DONE Handle heap tables or how to encrypt data in MySQL 

 How to add an additional node to an AWS auto scaling group
 Code review experience and a question regarding how to handle a spike in CPU
 When you might use a join vs a subquery – besides indexing
 Convinced to uninstall the MySQL engine to do an OS upgrade

DONE Handle heap tables 
   temporary storage engine is heap, temptable, or defined engine

Differences in MariaDB and Mysql

Finish
	pt=tools
	upgrde from 5.1 to 8.0, to 8.1, to 8.4
	       most important changes
	upgare AWS
	       EC2
	       RDS
	       Aurora


incorrect views
DONE memory -- threads, instruments, and show innodb status -- resident
  compare free -h and top to innodo status
  why does redident get bigger?
DONE locks
percona tools
   diget
   checksum + sync
   backup -- incluiong remote backup and restore. 
   others

ansible -- mysql install, clusterset, gakera cluster

rundecl , openstack,


graphana
	promethesus + mysqld_exporter
	telegraph